Azure: use OIDC for GitHub Actions (#473)
NordicSemiconductor/asset-tracker-cloud-docs: docs/azure/ContinuousDeployment.rst

#. Update the `deploy.webApp.repository <https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/asset-tracker-cloud-azure-js/blob/fd3777cde331286faf10e481bdf1a30327882008/package.json#L111>`_ in the :file:`package.json` file of your nRF Asset Tracker for Azure fork. It must point to the repository URL of your fork of the nRF Asset Tracker web application.

Authenticate GitHub Actions against Azure using OpenID Connect
**************************************************************

To allow the continuous deployment GitHub Action workflow to authenticate against Azure with short-lived credentials using a service principal, complete the following steps:

1. Follow the instructions to `Configure a service principal with a Federated Credential to use OIDC based authentication <https://github.com/Azure/login#configure-a-service-principal-with-a-federated-credential-to-use-oidc-based-authentication>`_.
   Use ``https://nrfassettracker.invalid/cd`` as the name.

#. Set the secrets:

   - Set the secrets using the GitHub UI:

>      Set the following `secrets <https://docs.github.com/en/rest/reference/actions#secrets>`_ through the GitHub UI to an `environment <https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/environments#creating-an-environment>`_ called ``production`` in your fork of the nRF Asset Tracker for Azure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     Set the following `secrets <https://docs.github.com/en/rest/reference/actions#secrets>`_ to an `environment <https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/environments#creating-an-environment>`_ called ``production`` in your fork of the nRF Asset Tracker for Azure:
```
You already have "using the GitHub UI" above.

>      * ``AZURE_CLIENT_ID`` - Store the application (client) ID of the service principal app registration created in step in the above step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     * ``AZURE_CLIENT_ID`` - Store the application (client) ID of the service principal app registration created in the previous step.
```

>      * ``AZURE_TENANT_ID`` - Store the directory (tenant) ID of the service principal app registration created in step in the above step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     * ``AZURE_TENANT_ID`` - Store the directory (tenant) ID of the service principal app registration created in the previous step.
```

>      * ``AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID`` - Store the ID of the subscription which contains the nRF Asset Tracker resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     * ``AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID`` - Store the ID of the subscription containing the nRF Asset Tracker resources.
```

>      Set the following following values from your :file:`.envrc` file as secrets as well:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     Set also the following values from your :file:`.envrc` file as secrets:
```

     * ``RESOURCE_GROUP``
     * ``LOCATION``
     * ``APP_NAME``
     * ``B2C_TENANT``
     * ``APP_REG_CLIENT_ID``

     If you have enabled the :ref:`azure-unwired-labs-cell-geolocation`, add your API key as a secret as well:

     * ``UNWIRED_LABS_API_KEY``

>    - Set the secrets using the GitHub CLI:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Alternatively, set the secrets using the `GitHub CLI <https://cli.github.com/>`_:
```

>      Alternatively, you can use the `GitHub CLI <https://cli.github.com/>`_  with the environment settings from above:

Reviewer: Remove this if you agree with my suggestion above.

    .. code-block:: bash

       export AZURE_CLIENT_ID=`az ad app list | jq -r '.[] | select(.displayName=="https://nrfassettracker.invalid/cd") | .appId'`
       export AZURE_TENANT_ID=`az ad sp show --id ${AZURE_CLIENT_ID} | jq -r '.appOwnerOrganizationId'`
       gh secret set AZURE_CLIENT_ID --env production --body "${AZURE_CLIENT_ID}"
       gh secret set AZURE_TENANT_ID --env production --body "${AZURE_TENANT_ID}"
       gh secret set AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID --env production --body "${SUBSCRIPTION_ID}"
       gh secret set RESOURCE_GROUP --env production --body "${RESOURCE_GROUP}"
       gh secret set LOCATION --env production --body "${LOCATION}"
       gh secret set APP_NAME --env production --body "${APP_NAME}"
       gh secret set B2C_TENANT --env production --body "${B2C_TENANT}"
       gh secret set APP_REG_CLIENT_ID --env production --body "${APP_REG_CLIENT_ID}"

> #. Grant the application created in step 1 Contributor permissions for your resource group:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Grant the application created in Step 1 Contributor permissions for your resource group:
```

   .. code-block:: bash

      export AZURE_CLIENT_ID=`az ad app list | jq -r '.[] | select(.displayName=="https://nrfassettracker.invalid/cd") | .appId'`
      az role assignment create --role Contributor \
         --assignee ${AZURE_CLIENT_ID} \
         --scope /subscriptions/${SUBSCRIPTION_ID}/resourceGroups/${RESOURCE_GROUP:-nrfassettracker}

> #. Grant the application created in step 1 "Key Vault Secrets Officer" to the KeyVault:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Grant the application created in Step 1 "Key Vault Secrets Officer" rights to the KeyVault:
```

Reviewer 2: Could we add a label before step 1 and link to to it for Step 1? Something like 
.. _step1_authentication_openid: before line 32 
and referencing step 1 as :ref:`step 1 <step1_authentication_openid>`

#. Update the `deploy.webApp.repository <https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/asset-tracker-cloud-azure-js/blob/fd3777cde331286faf10e481bdf1a30327882008/package.json#L111>`_ in the :file:`package.json` file of your nRF Asset Tracker for Azure fork. It must point to the repository URL of your fork of the nRF Asset Tracker web application.

Authenticate GitHub Actions against Azure using OpenID Connect
**************************************************************

To allow the continuous deployment GitHub Action workflow to authenticate against Azure with short-lived credentials using a service principal, complete the following steps:

1. Follow the instructions to `Configure a service principal with a Federated Credential to use OIDC based authentication <https://github.com/Azure/login#configure-a-service-principal-with-a-federated-credential-to-use-oidc-based-authentication>`_.
   Use ``https://nrfassettracker.invalid/cd`` as the name.

>    From the command line this can be achieved using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   On the command line, use the following commands:
```

   .. code-block:: bash

      az ad app create --display-name 'https://nrfassettracker.invalid/cd'
      export APPLICATION_OBJECT_ID=`az ad app list | jq -r '.[] | select(.displayName=="https://nrfassettracker.invalid/cd") | .id' | tr -d '\n'`

>       az rest --method POST --uri "https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/applications/${APPLICATION_OBJECT_ID}/federatedIdentityCredentials" --body '{"name":"GitHub Actions","issuer":"https://token.actions.githubusercontent.com","subject":"repo:NordicSemiconductor/asset-tracker-cloud-azure-js:environment:production","description":"Allow GitHub Actions to modify Azure resources","audiences":["api://AzureADTokenExchange"]}' 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      az rest --method POST --uri "https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/applications/${APPLICATION_OBJECT_ID}/federatedIdentityCredentials" --body '{"name":"GitHub Actions","issuer":"https://token.actions.githubusercontent.com","subject":"repo:*organization*/*repository*:environment:production","description":"Allow GitHub Actions to modify Azure resources","audiences":["api://AzureADTokenExchange"]}' 
```
Would using replaceable terms for the command make more sense than telling the user to replace actual ones?

Author: I was told by tech writers to not use actually replaceble labels anywhere, but this style for parameters.

>    Make sure to use the organization and repository name of your fork instead of ``NordicSemiconductor/asset-tracker-cloud-azure-js`` in the command above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Use the organization and repository name of your fork instead of ``NordicSemiconductor/asset-tracker-cloud-azure-js`` in the command.
```

#. Set the secrets:

   - Set the secrets using the GitHub UI:

     Set the following `secrets <https://docs.github.com/en/rest/reference/actions#secrets>`_ through the GitHub UI to an `environment <https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/environments#creating-an-environment>`_ called ``production`` in your fork of the nRF Asset Tracker for Azure:

     * ``AZURE_CLIENT_ID`` - Store the application (client) ID of the service principal app registration created in step in the above step.
     * ``AZURE_TENANT_ID`` - Store the directory (tenant) ID of the service principal app registration created in step in the above step.
     * ``AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID`` - Store the ID of the subscription which contains the nRF Asset Tracker resources.

     Set the following following values from your :file:`.envrc` file as secrets as well:

     * ``RESOURCE_GROUP``
     * ``LOCATION``
     * ``APP_NAME``
     * ``B2C_TENANT``
     * ``APP_REG_CLIENT_ID``

>      If you have enabled the :ref:`azure-unwired-labs-cell-geolocation`, add your API key as a secret as well:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     If you have enabled the :ref:`azure-unwired-labs-cell-geolocation`, add your API key ``UNWIRED_LABS_API_KEY`` as a secret as well.
```

>      * ``UNWIRED_LABS_API_KEY``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

   - Set the secrets using the GitHub CLI:

>      Alternatively, you can use the `GitHub CLI <https://cli.github.com/>`_  with the environment settings from above (make sure to create the ``production`` `environment <https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/targeting-different-environments/using-environments-for-deployment>`_ in your repository first):

Reviewer 2: If we are adding the above suggestion from Pekka,
```suggestion
     You can use the `GitHub CLI <https://cli.github.com/>`_  with the environment settings from above (make sure to create the ``production`` `environment <https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/targeting-different-environments/using-environments-for-deployment>`_ in your repository first):
```

    .. code-block:: bash

       export AZURE_CLIENT_ID=`az ad app list | jq -r '.[] | select(.displayName=="https://nrfassettracker.invalid/cd") | .appId' | tr -d '\n'`
       export AZURE_TENANT_ID=`az ad sp show --id ${AZURE_CLIENT_ID} | jq -r '.appOwnerOrganizationId' | tr -d '\n'`
       gh secret set AZURE_CLIENT_ID --env production --body "${AZURE_CLIENT_ID}"
       gh secret set AZURE_TENANT_ID --env production --body "${AZURE_TENANT_ID}"
       gh secret set AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID --env production --body "${SUBSCRIPTION_ID}"
       gh secret set RESOURCE_GROUP --env production --body "${RESOURCE_GROUP}"
       gh secret set LOCATION --env production --body "${LOCATION}"
       gh secret set APP_NAME --env production --body "${APP_NAME}"
       gh secret set B2C_TENANT --env production --body "${B2C_TENANT}"
       gh secret set APP_REG_CLIENT_ID --env production --body "${APP_REG_CLIENT_ID}"

> #. Grant the application created in step 1 Owner permissions for your resource group:

Reviewer 2: Could we add a label before step 1 and link to to it for Step 1? Something like 
.. _step1_authentication_openid: before line 32 
and referencing step 1 as :ref:`step 1 <step1_authentication_openid>`

   :alt: GitHub Actions workflow run of Continuous Deployment

   GitHub Actions workflow run of Continuous Deployment

More information
****************

> You can read more about how GitHub Actions uses OIDC on `About security hardening with OpenID Connect <https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/security-hardening-your-deployments/about-security-hardening-with-openid-connect>`_ in the GitHub Actions documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details about how GitHub Actions uses OIDC, read `About security hardening with OpenID Connect <https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/security-hardening-your-deployments/about-security-hardening-with-openid-connect>`_ in the GitHub Actions documentation.
```
